---
date: 2024-03-08T23:23
draft: true
tags:
- 
---

!["It's this shallow belief in immediate profit. They go around talking about seeing something big. As if everything they feel, everything they re thinking, is so big, bigger than all of us. That's what they do. They act like they're all big, ready to share their happiness with everyone, when the only happiness they care about is their own. Like, why can't they just keep all that stuff to themselves and leave the rest of us alone?"](../attachment/vsc-paste/2024030823-240308232430.png)

!["I mean the ones who go around making absolutely certain they never challenge the men around them, or threaten their sense of superiority. In everything they do, they're careful to make sure they never lose. They act like they don't care, but it's all they live for. You can see it in their eyes. Of course, the second some other girl with the potential to undermine their position—someone like them—shows up, she crushes her like it's nothing. These women are heartless. I've seen it so many times, I'm sick of it. But I guess that's fine, too. It's their life. Still, you know what really bothers me? That they're actually naive enough to think that no one's caught on to their stupid little performance. These women think they're fooling all the men around them, but they're only fooling each other. You know, that whole 'I've got this' mentality. That kind of dullness is too much for me. I hate it. So much."](../attachment/vsc-paste/2024030823-240308232444.png)

Two quotes from the book “All the lovers in the night” by Mieko Kawakami. I thought it made sense to share them today.

From long-term perception, listening and seeing, I think women lack empathy toward other women. In the context of this enduring inequality and violence, it makes much more sense that women defend each other, at least, so they can purge any traces of chauvinism left in them.